README.md, before:

# Mini BI Dashboard

A modern, responsive Business Intelligence dashboard built with React and JavaScript, featuring a comprehensive design system and accessibility-first approach.

![Dashboard Preview](https://via.placeholder.com/800x600/3b82f6/ffffff?text=Mini+BI+Dashboard)

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 16.0 or higher
- npm or yarn package manager

### Installation & Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Open browser to http://localhost:5173
```

### Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Start development server
npm run build        # Build for production
npm run preview      # Preview production build
npm run test         # Run unit tests
npm run test:ui      # Run tests with UI
npm run storybook    # Start Storybook development server
npm run build-storybook  # Build Storybook for production
```

## 🏗️ Architecture & Design Decisions

### Component Architecture

The dashboard follows a modular component architecture with clear separation of concerns:

- **UI Components**: Reusable, design-token-based components (`/src/components/ui/`)
- **Dashboard Components**: Specialized components for BI functionality (`/src/components/`)
- **Data Layer**: Mock data and utilities (`/src/data/`, `/src/lib/`)

### Design System

#### Design Tokens
A comprehensive design token system ensures consistency across the application:

- **Colors**: Primary, secondary, success, warning, error palettes
- **Typography**: Font sizes, weights, and line heights
- **Spacing**: Consistent spacing scale (xs to 3xl)
- **Border Radius**: Standardized corner radii
- **Shadows**: Card and hover shadows

```javascript
// Example design tokens usage
const colors = {
  primary: { 500: '#3b82f6', 600: '#2563eb' },
  secondary: { 500: '#64748b', 600: '#475569' }
};
```

#### Component Design Principles

1. **Composability**: Components are designed to work together seamlessly
2. **Flexibility**: Props-based customization without breaking the design system
3. **Accessibility**: ARIA labels, keyboard navigation, and screen reader support
4. **Consistency**: Unified styling through design tokens

### Technology Stack

- **React 18**: Modern React with hooks and functional components
- **Vite**: Fast build tool and development server
- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS framework with custom design tokens
- **Recharts**: Accessible and responsive charting library
- **Vitest**: Fast unit testing framework
- **Storybook**: Component development and documentation
- **Lucide React**: Modern icon library

## 📊 Dashboard Features

### Key Metrics Cards
- Real-time KPI display with trend indicators
- Color-coded change indicators (green: positive, red: negative, gray: neutral)
- Accessible trend descriptions for screen readers

### Interactive Chart
- Line chart showing samples per day with target reference line
- Responsive design that adapts to different screen sizes
- Accessible tooltips and keyboard navigation

### Data Tables
- Sortable columns for data exploration
- Status indicators with color coding
- Responsive design with horizontal scrolling on mobile

### Date Range Picker
- Accessible date selection with keyboard navigation
- Visual feedback for selected ranges
- Form validation and error handling

## 🎨 Design System Components

### Core UI Components

#### Button
```jsx
<Button variant="primary" size="md" onClick={handleClick}>
  Click me
</Button>
```

Variants: `primary`, `secondary`, `outline`, `ghost`
Sizes: `sm`, `md`, `lg`

#### Card
```jsx
<Card>
  <CardHeader>
    <CardTitle>Title</CardTitle>
    <CardDescription>Description</CardDescription>
  </CardHeader>
  <CardContent>Content goes here</CardContent>
</Card>
```

#### Input
```jsx
<Input
  label="Email"
  type="email"
  placeholder="Enter your email"
  required
  error={errors.email}
/>
```

### Dashboard Components

- **MetricCard**: KPI display with trend indicators
- **SamplesChart**: Line chart with target reference
- **DataTable**: Sortable data presentation
- **DateRangePicker**: Accessible date selection

## ♿ Accessibility Features

### ARIA Implementation
- Comprehensive ARIA labels for all interactive elements
- `role` attributes for complex components (tables, dialogs)
- `aria-expanded`, `aria-haspopup` for disclosure widgets

### Keyboard Navigation
- Full keyboard support for all interactive elements
- Logical tab order throughout the application
- Escape key handling for modal/dropdown components

### Screen Reader Support
- Descriptive alt text and labels
- Live regions for dynamic content updates
- Semantic HTML structure with proper headings

### Visual Accessibility
- High contrast color ratios (WCAG AA compliant)
- Focus indicators for keyboard users
- Responsive design that works at 200% zoom

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

### Unit Testing
- **Button Component**: Variant rendering, event handling, accessibility
- **MetricCard Component**: Data display, trend indicators, ARIA labels
- **App Integration**: Full dashboard rendering and interaction

### Test Coverage
```bash
# Run tests with coverage
npm run test -- --coverage
```

### Storybook Testing
- Visual regression testing through Storybook
- Component interaction testing
- Accessibility testing with addon-a11y

## 📱 Responsive Design

The dashboard is fully responsive with breakpoints:

- **Mobile**: 320px - 767px (single column layout)
- **Tablet**: 768px - 1023px (2-column grid)
- **Desktop**: 1024px+ (4-column grid for metrics)

### Responsive Features
- Flexible grid layouts using CSS Grid and Flexbox
- Adaptive typography and spacing
- Touch-friendly interactive elements
- Horizontal scrolling for data tables on mobile

## 🛠️ Development Workflow

### Component Development
1. Design component API and props
2. Implement with design tokens
3. Add accessibility features
4. Write unit tests
5. Create Storybook stories
6. Document usage examples

### Code Quality
- ESLint configuration for code consistency
- Prettier for code formatting
- Git hooks for pre-commit validation

## 🚧 Future Improvements

### With More Time, I Would Add:

#### Enhanced Features
- **Real-time Data**: WebSocket integration for live updates
- **Advanced Filtering**: Multi-dimensional data filtering
- **Export Functionality**: PDF/Excel export capabilities
- **User Preferences**: Customizable dashboard layouts
- **Dark Mode**: Complete dark theme implementation

#### Technical Improvements
- **Performance**: Virtual scrolling for large datasets
- **Caching**: React Query for data caching and synchronization
- **Internationalization**: Multi-language support
- **Progressive Web App**: Offline functionality and mobile app features

#### Enhanced Testing
- **E2E Testing**: Playwright or Cypress integration
- **Visual Regression**: Automated screenshot testing
- **Performance Testing**: Core Web Vitals monitoring
- **Accessibility Auditing**: Automated a11y testing in CI/CD

#### Advanced Visualizations
- **Interactive Charts**: Drill-down capabilities and brushing
- **Dashboard Builder**: Drag-and-drop dashboard customization
- **Advanced Analytics**: Statistical analysis and forecasting
- **Data Exploration**: Interactive data discovery tools

## 🤖 AI Tool Usage

This project leveraged AI assistance for:

- **Code Structure**: Initial component architecture planning
- **Design Tokens**: Color palette and spacing system generation
- **Test Cases**: Comprehensive test scenario identification
- **Documentation**: README structure and content organization
- **Accessibility**: ARIA implementation best practices

All AI-generated code was reviewed, customized, and enhanced to meet project requirements and best practices.

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project as a foundation for your own BI dashboards.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the contributing guidelines and submit pull requests for any improvements.

---

Built with ❤️ using React, Tailwind CSS, and modern web development best practices.

Commit message:

docs: Add assumptions section to README
- Add project assumptions explaining data source, browser support, device usage, and accessibility priorities
- Provide context for architectural decisions and feature scope
- Position section logically before Architecture & Design Decisions

README.md, after:

# Mini BI Dashboard

A modern, responsive Business Intelligence dashboard built with React and JavaScript, featuring a comprehensive design system and accessibility-first approach.

![Dashboard Preview](https://via.placeholder.com/800x600/3b82f6/ffffff?text=Mini+BI+Dashboard)

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 16.0 or higher
- npm or yarn package manager

### Installation & Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Open browser to http://localhost:5173
```

### Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Start development server
npm run build        # Build for production
npm run preview      # Preview production build
npm run test         # Run unit tests
npm run test:ui      # Run tests with UI
npm run storybook    # Start Storybook development server
npm run build-storybook  # Build Storybook for production
```

## 🧠 Assumptions

The following assumptions guided the development of this Mini BI Dashboard:

- **Data Source**: The chart and table data are based on mocked/static data as real APIs were not in scope for this implementation.
- **Browser Support**: Users will primarily access the dashboard on modern browsers with JavaScript enabled, allowing for modern web technologies and features.
- **Device Usage**: The dashboard will be used on both desktop and mobile devices, requiring full responsiveness and touch-friendly interactions.
- **Accessibility Priority**: Accessibility is a high priority for all components due to potential enterprise usage, ensuring compliance with WCAG guidelines and screen reader compatibility.

These assumptions influenced architectural decisions, technology choices, and the overall scope of features implemented in the current version.

## 🏗️ Architecture & Design Decisions

### Component Architecture

The dashboard follows a modular component architecture with clear separation of concerns:

- **UI Components**: Reusable, design-token-based components (`/src/components/ui/`)
- **Dashboard Components**: Specialized components for BI functionality (`/src/components/`)
- **Data Layer**: Mock data and utilities (`/src/data/`, `/src/lib/`)

### Design System

#### Design Tokens
A comprehensive design token system ensures consistency across the application:

- **Colors**: Primary, secondary, success, warning, error palettes
- **Typography**: Font sizes, weights, and line heights
- **Spacing**: Consistent spacing scale (xs to 3xl)
- **Border Radius**: Standardized corner radii
- **Shadows**: Card and hover shadows

```javascript
// Example design tokens usage
const colors = {
  primary: { 500: '#3b82f6', 600: '#2563eb' },
  secondary: { 500: '#64748b', 600: '#475569' }
};
```

#### Component Design Principles

1. **Composability**: Components are designed to work together seamlessly
2. **Flexibility**: Props-based customization without breaking the design system
3. **Accessibility**: ARIA labels, keyboard navigation, and screen reader support
4. **Consistency**: Unified styling through design tokens

### Technology Stack

- **React 18**: Modern React with hooks and functional components
- **Vite**: Fast build tool and development server
- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS framework with custom design tokens
- **Recharts**: Accessible and responsive charting library
- **Vitest**: Fast unit testing framework
- **Storybook**: Component development and documentation
- **Lucide React**: Modern icon library

## 📊 Dashboard Features

### Key Metrics Cards
- Real-time KPI display with trend indicators
- Color-coded change indicators (green: positive, red: negative, gray: neutral)
- Accessible trend descriptions for screen readers

### Interactive Chart
- Line chart showing samples per day with target reference line
- Responsive design that adapts to different screen sizes
- Accessible tooltips and keyboard navigation

### Data Tables
- Sortable columns for data exploration
- Status indicators with color coding
- Responsive design with horizontal scrolling on mobile

### Date Range Picker
- Accessible date selection with keyboard navigation
- Visual feedback for selected ranges
- Form validation and error handling

## 🎨 Design System Components

### Core UI Components

#### Button
```jsx
<Button variant="primary" size="md" onClick={handleClick}>
  Click me
</Button>
```

Variants: `primary`, `secondary`, `outline`, `ghost`
Sizes: `sm`, `md`, `lg`

#### Card
```jsx
<Card>
  <CardHeader>
    <CardTitle>Title</CardTitle>
    <CardDescription>Description</CardDescription>
  </CardHeader>
  <CardContent>Content goes here</CardContent>
</Card>
```

#### Input
```jsx
<Input
  label="Email"
  type="email"
  placeholder="Enter your email"
  required
  error={errors.email}
/>
```

### Dashboard Components

- **MetricCard**: KPI display with trend indicators
- **SamplesChart**: Line chart with target reference
- **DataTable**: Sortable data presentation
- **DateRangePicker**: Accessible date selection

## ♿ Accessibility Features

### ARIA Implementation
- Comprehensive ARIA labels for all interactive elements
- `role` attributes for complex components (tables, dialogs)
- `aria-expanded`, `aria-haspopup` for disclosure widgets

### Keyboard Navigation
- Full keyboard support for all interactive elements
- Logical tab order throughout the application
- Escape key handling for modal/dropdown components

### Screen Reader Support
- Descriptive alt text and labels
- Live regions for dynamic content updates
- Semantic HTML structure with proper headings

### Visual Accessibility
- High contrast color ratios (WCAG AA compliant)
- Focus indicators for keyboard users
- Responsive design that works at 200% zoom

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

### Unit Testing
- **Button Component**: Variant rendering, event handling, accessibility
- **MetricCard Component**: Data display, trend indicators, ARIA labels
- **App Integration**: Full dashboard rendering and interaction

### Test Coverage
```bash
# Run tests with coverage
npm run test -- --coverage
```

### Storybook Testing
- Visual regression testing through Storybook
- Component interaction testing
- Accessibility testing with addon-a11y

## 📱 Responsive Design

The dashboard is fully responsive with breakpoints:

- **Mobile**: 320px - 767px (single column layout)
- **Tablet**: 768px - 1023px (2-column grid)
- **Desktop**: 1024px+ (4-column grid for metrics)

### Responsive Features
- Flexible grid layouts using CSS Grid and Flexbox
- Adaptive typography and spacing
- Touch-friendly interactive elements
- Horizontal scrolling for data tables on mobile

## 🛠️ Development Workflow

### Component Development
1. Design component API and props
2. Implement with design tokens
3. Add accessibility features
4. Write unit tests
5. Create Storybook stories
6. Document usage examples

### Code Quality
- ESLint configuration for code consistency
- Prettier for code formatting
- Git hooks for pre-commit validation

## 🚧 Future Improvements

### With More Time, I Would Add:

#### Enhanced Features
- **Real-time Data**: WebSocket integration for live updates
- **Advanced Filtering**: Multi-dimensional data filtering
- **Export Functionality**: PDF/Excel export capabilities
- **User Preferences**: Customizable dashboard layouts
- **Dark Mode**: Complete dark theme implementation

#### Technical Improvements
- **Performance**: Virtual scrolling for large datasets
- **Caching**: React Query for data caching and synchronization
- **Internationalization**: Multi-language support
- **Progressive Web App**: Offline functionality and mobile app features

#### Enhanced Testing
- **E2E Testing**: Playwright or Cypress integration
- **Visual Regression**: Automated screenshot testing
- **Performance Testing**: Core Web Vitals monitoring
- **Accessibility Auditing**: Automated a11y testing in CI/CD

#### Advanced Visualizations
- **Interactive Charts**: Drill-down capabilities and brushing
- **Dashboard Builder**: Drag-and-drop dashboard customization
- **Advanced Analytics**: Statistical analysis and forecasting
- **Data Exploration**: Interactive data discovery tools

## 🤖 AI Tool Usage

This project leveraged AI assistance for:

- **Code Structure**: Initial component architecture planning
- **Design Tokens**: Color palette and spacing system generation
- **Test Cases**: Comprehensive test scenario identification
- **Documentation**: README structure and content organization
- **Accessibility**: ARIA implementation best practices

All AI-generated code was reviewed, customized, and enhanced to meet project requirements and best practices.

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project as a foundation for your own BI dashboards.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the contributing guidelines and submit pull requests for any improvements.

---

Built with ❤️ using React, Tailwind CSS, and modern web development best practices.
